# Secure_police_check
This project aims to design and implement an SQL-based police check post database integrated with a Python-powered Streamlit dashboard for real-time traffic stop insights, visual analytics, and predictive intelligence.
Traffic-stops data set was provided with columns related to traffic stops and violation such as stop_data,driver_age, driver_gender,country_name etc. Some of the columns were uncleaned, contained NAN/missing values.
**Tools Used:** 
**Python**: Data processing, Streamlit frontend, Pandas, Plotly
**MySQL**: Data storage, relational querying
**Streamlit**: For creating an interactive data dashboard
**Python and Mysql**:So as a first step, I have created a connection between mysql and python. I cleaned the data by removing the columns that are no longer used, handling the NAN values.Defined SQL schema for police stop records. Created table called police_logs.Read the csv file and inserted values from the dataframe to the mysql table using python and pandas. There were 14 medium level queries and 6 complex queries to be solved as part of the project to gain more insights on the demography,vehicles,violation, time and duration of the stops. For which optimal queries were written for fast lookups thereby ensuring data accuracy.
**Streamlit**:As part of visualization, I have used python supported streamlit dashboard to analyse and visualize traffic stop data to uncover patterns in arrest,searches, violations etc. The sql queries were used to extract relevant insights. Plotly and streamlits built in charts were also used for visualization. In the streamlit application, I have created a function for establishing connection with the sql database called secure_check. I have also written a get_data function to fetch data from the database. And then I have displayed an interative table in the dashboard to get an overview of the police logs. Key metrics related to total_stops,total_arrest and drug_related_stop is shown along with chloropleth showing arrest rate by country. 
For Advanced police stop data insights,the page will then have 2 columns for medium and complex queries with different run buttons for each. The queries will be displayed in a selectbox. Depending upon the query selected, a chart or metric related to the query result will be displayed below. Followed by a User Form to input information for prediction.
The form will contain many text fields and selectbox to be entered by the user to predict stop outcome and violation.Once the form is filled and the submit button for prediction is clicked, it filters the original dataset to find similar past records. And those filtered details alone will be returned. Based on which the prediction for stop outcome and violation will be derived. 
